hi I'm Emma TCAPS and today I'm going to
be demonstrating the technique I use for
painting my full-page illustrations for
Stone Soup magazine so for the current
story I'm working on I have two
illustrations and you can see that I've
already painted one of them so today in
this video you're going to see a
time-lapse of the entire process of
painting this illustration here you can
see that right now
I've penciled and inked the illustration
what I use with my inking our fixed
whips technical pens specifically the
brand copic multiliner SP in different
widths as you're painting I use a sock
or a koi watercolor filled box set with
24 colors and what's really anything
about this set is it uses a Japanese
style where it comes something called a
water brush and you'll notice isn't a
live look of a traditional brush that's
because here in the barrel it's filled
with water so when you want to add water
to your painting all you have to do is
squeeze and it'll come out on the
bristles that way you're not to have any
glasses of water about to tip over your
painting I also use sponges for dabbing
on my painting and adding texture I
don't know if any other artists use
sponges in this way it's a technique
I've developed myself I also use some
traditional brushes specifically Windsor
Newton artists round sable one's dies is
0 0 to 2 for doing detail and in the
video you'll see me wherever they're not
to change the follow my iPod I always
listen to music when I'm painting I find
that it helps to set the mood in what's
normally a very silent and solitary
activity and you'll also see me test my
colours over here on what's called a
test sheet since watercolors aren't or
paint if you make a mistake you can't
just cover it with a different color so
it's vital to have patience and test
your cards in a different sheet and you
can see my test sheets for the previous
painting are very crazy and covered with
colors so at the end of the video this
sheet is going to be transformed into
one of those as well alright so I hope
you enjoy this video you learn something
from it that's good
so I've been painting for about three
and a half hours and I've just finished
the first stage of creating a watercolor
illustration
getting down the base colors for the
seat base color is a term used for the
underlying color that you're going to
use in a certain area or shape and then
you build up the shadows and textures to
get the full watercolor effect so
currently I made the base flares out my
entire picture I usually find this the
most difficult step because when you
have to decide how all your colors are
going to look and what colors are going
to be where when I do ensure your scenes
that have a lot of trouble with this
because there's unlimited possibilities
for the colors that things can be when I
do an outdoor scene like this one it's a
bit easier because I know that trees
have to be grading and so does grass and
buildings maybe red brick in this case
so here you can see what I've done and
I've painted it all it is I'm covered a
bright light right now they're going to
get a lot darker later so now I get to
my favorite part which is adding in the
shadows and the textures I really like
this part because it's when you take
what is a pretty nice painting but is
very flat and you turn into something
that looks completely 3d and rape
I
you